# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

1. The project is only playable on a browser, which limits performance.
2. Lack of substantial speed up means that users have to watch for long amounts of time.
3. A large amount of creature designs fail due to being "too flat"
4. No camera controls
5. Lack of fully integrated educational content

## Maintenance

Depending on what the future of this project entails, maintenance would vary.

### Current Platform and Size

To keep the project within its current scope and limitations of a browser would be a less intensive maintenance plan that could be realistically be completed by a single person over a short time span. The goals would focus on including more educational value alongside expanding the UI and feedback for the user, such as neural network visualisations and graphs showing improvements to the creatures over the whole evolution. \
\
The advantage of this is that the code could be hosted publicly on GitHub for anyone to run within their website, widening the ease of access for educational institutions to access the project.

### Growing the Scope

If the project was moved beyond the current scope, I believe moving the project outside of a browser and making it into an executable would be needed. This would allow the program to have access to more resources alongside making saving and loading creatures more practical and reliable, whereas on a webpage version this would be much less reliable. Alongside this, I would need to consider changing the physics engine or creating logic for simulating generations much faster with the current one, allowing uses to create a creature and almost instantly see an endpoint of the evolution. For this development plan, potentially having an extra person working on the project could make the higher workload manageable. Potential features could include custom evolution scenes, a variety of infographics, more options for creating the creature and many more fine tune controls for every aspect of the simulation and neural network.\
\
The advantage of this approach would be allowing the project to grow and evolve in its own way as features that were unsuitable or imposable before can be added, but at the expense on accessibility, as schools can sometimes restrict what software is downloaded to their machines.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

#### Bug fixes

All of the bugs I've noticed towards the end of this project are small but can detract from the experience, so here are some proposed changes to these problems.

* DOM elements can be hidden on smaller window sizes
  * Anchoring elements differently could fix this
  * Creating buttons in canvas would eliminate this completely
* Users can add unconnected joints in the creature creator
  * Additional checks could be performed
* 1.3x speed still causes some ground clipping
  * Lowering max speed to 1.2x
* Creatures can de-evolve due to an unlucky generation
  * Save best of all time creature and include in comparisons
* Users can easily create unviable creatures
  * Have a present creature that works well in the simulation

#### Lose conditions

One feature I never got around to implementing was a lose condition that the user could set for each generation. Lose conditions could range from removing creatures who move too slow or don't meet another condition. This would also allow for more interesting logic surrounding the neural networks changes between generations, where more random changes are made to creatures eliminated due to the lose condition. This would allow a lot more customisation for the user and would make the evolution more engaging to watch.

### Long Term Plan

#### Current limitations

As identified earlier, the current limitations of the project are holding it back from growing substantially.

1. To allow better performance, I would move the project to a standalone application.
2. Due to speeding up time causing major physics bugs with the current library, finding a new physics library or coding one from scratch will be needed.
3. An alteration to how the creatures are fundamentally constructed to add more stability to them by adding more or changing the basic building blocks may also be desired.
4. Expanding the use of the camera would add more user interaction and control, comparably this may be easier to implement.
5. Finally, creating a system to feed the user parts of the educational content through window popups and hints would require a new framework to work.

#### 1. Standalone application

Due to previously identified limits to creature sizes I've identified, I believe that, beyond optimisation, moving the project to a standalone application and allowing the user to have more computing power available for processing the evolution. This would allow the user to create larger creatures with less lag and give more room for expanding features.

#### 2. Changing physics library

From researching matter.js's time scale, I found that there was a known bug causing physics to break when the time scale is raised. Due to this, I may feel the need to switch physics libraries and search for a new one with speeding up time in mind. To do this would require a lot of changes to the current code but would be a worthwhile change in the long run.

#### 3. Add to / change the creature creation

As the major part of user agency over the simulation, the creature creation will need some refinements and adjustments with potentially more additions to expand the room for creativity and interaction from the user. One area of this I would want to focus on is giving the creatures more stability, as a lot of creature creations have most of a generation fall over due to being inherently unstable unless constructed with a lot of muscles bracing between joints.

#### 4. Camera controls

Expanding camera controls will also be an important focus for longer term development, as the user has very few ways to directly interact with the simulation when it is progressing. Adding camera controls, however, will be an unintrusive way to add more user interaction, as panning a camera would not interfere with the evolution.

#### 5. Expanding educational content

As one of the main goals of the project, the educational content is lacking due to not being directly interfaced into the project. A way to solve this in the long term could be to create popups that display and aim to teach the user concepts surrounding real world evolution and neural networks. These could display during the simulation to give the user something to do where they may be getting tired of watching the creatures.

As always, all these features will need to be tested when created and later on to ensure compatibility. Once all known bugs are eliminated, the project would be ready to be released.
