# 3.1 Testing for Function and Robustness

## Criteria To Assess

I have three success criteria that relate to robustness and reliability. These criteria don't define a frame rate so I will say 30fps is the lowest I should allow, as any lower becomes obviously slow to the user.

| Criterion | Description                                               |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| 3         | Must be quick enough to run smoothly in runtime.          |
| 20        | The game must be stable and run correctly.                |
| 21        | The game must keep a good frame rate on low end machines. |

### Criterion 3

Criterion 3 refers to the neural networks ability to run smoothly during runtime. The neural networks' size only increases with constraints, and takes up more memory with each constraint, as each individual network has 7 \* amount of constraint nodes, and this network is created 32 times creating 224 nodes total for each constraint created. This can get quite large quickly, with \
\
10 constraints \* 7 nodes for each \* 32 creatures = 2240 nodes.\
Using tf.memory(); shows that the memory this uses = 135680 bytes 0.13568 megabytes\
\
45 constraints \* 7 nodes for each \* 32 creatures = 10080 nodes\
Using tf.memory(); shows that the memory this uses = 2626560 bytes 2.62656 megabytes\
\
For the 45 constraints I created a creature using 10 joints and a muscle connecting every joint to each other. This did cause lag when I tested it but also caused a lot of lag when I tested it again but with no neural network. I can then conclude that any lag caused by the neural network will be less than the lag caused by excessive matter.js objects.

### Criterion 20

To test this criterion, I created an unreasonably large creature to observe how the evolution would be impacted by lag. I believe if the simulation won't break due to lag, I can consider it robust enough to pass this criterion.\
\
Observing evolution with a slow frame rate, I found that the simulation worked just as expected but  slower. even with 100 bodies for each creature, creating 3200 bodies in the simulation, the program just ran really slow with some bodies falling into each other for a couple frames (which I have previously observed with matter.js during intense lag). I also noticed that the timer was frame rate independent, so the creatures would have less time to move with more lag.\
\
The takeaway is that lag only appears once the amount of bodies, circles (joints) or constraints (muscles) reach an unreasonable amount when considering feasibility to evolve in the first place, and when the program does lag, the creatures still move and evolve. This evolution is degraded, however, as the timer for the generations appears to be frame rate independent and thus gives the creatures less time to move around.

### Criterion 21

During the rest of the testing, I've been using a laptop with 8GB of RAM and a Ryzen 7, and I would consider this as a lower end machine \
\
(find out the specs of the school computers)\
\
&#x20;I have already set Tensorflow to use CPU processing instead of GPU processing, so the performance of the simulation should vary based on GPU's.&#x20;
