# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics

### Movement

The player is not planned to have direct control over the agents, with their movement being being driven by joints, muscles and machine learning. The muscles, that the player can place, will be able to exert a force by expanding or contracting (like a pair of muscles) to move the joints. I believe this movement system will give a big amount of variety for the player to initially create a creature and for the agents to evolve differing movement patterns.

### Controls

The player won't have direct control over the agents, but should be given options to speed up, slow down and pause the simulation in the UI among other options.\
\
The player should also have camera controls such as zooming and panning.

### Physics

A physics library that can handle 2D physics such as gravity, circles, joints and muscles, with multiple of these collisions happening concurrently on different agents. I will also need collision layers to make sure collisions only happen when needed to make the simulation more stable and efficient.

### Level Layouts

I plan to implement different level layouts with different goals for the machine learning ai to overcome in different ways. For example, there could be a recurring obstacle for the ai to learn to get over, or the goal could be either to jump as high as possible or run as far to the left in 30 seconds.

## Educational Content

### Balance Between Simulation and Education

Finding the balance between the simulation and educational content is very important for retaining attention and interest whilst the simulation has got educational value [(Royle, 2008)](../analysis/references.md). I believe that the best way to embed educational content is through the gameplay, so the concept of an evolution sim, so it conceptually represents&#x20;

### Visual Learning

Using visual elements to show rather than tell will be my aim for educational engagement within the simulation, and to help with this I plan to use a visual representation of the neural network with colours and sizes showing weights and outcomes.

### User Interface

For UI, I also plan on a very simplistic style. The UI will have a lot of options, as it is the only way for the player to interact with the simulation. The UI will include a range of options, such as simulation speed control and options to look closer at an individual agent, such as showing information about an agents position, current generation and neural network.

## Limitations

### Platform Support

Despite my library of choice, Phaser.io, being designed to work both on desktop and mobile phone browsers, I have decided to limit my project to desktop browsers to keep the UI controls simpler to create and to allow me to focus on the simulation part of my project. I will make Google Chrome the target browser, but there shouldn't be any requirements on such.

### Performance

As a browser game, the performance can get effected by limitations from the browser its running within.

### Replay Feature

I will be focusing on the real time progress of the simulation, and believe it is beyond my scope to implement a generation replay feature.

### Saving

I will also rule out saving a simulation state, as the simulation will run and give a result within a short enough timeframe to be done in one session and shouldn't need to be reloaded in the future.
