# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Abstraction is the processes of filtering away characteristics of a problem that are irrelevant to help concentrate on core details. Within development this is very important, as you, as the designer and programmer, will face a lot of problems that will need to be abstracted, but can also be very important with considering what to show the user through graphics and interfaces, and what to keep hidden for simplicity. Some features I will abstract visually for the user will be:

* Neural network maps. A visualisation of the weights and outcomes and what they mean for an agent would be a great feature to include and would require abstraction from complicated coding and a visualisation for a user inexperienced in neural networks to view and understand.
* Graphics. Simplicity is the focus of the graphics, as the agents will be no more than 2D circles and rectangles that can be rendered as single coloured blocks to save both on browser performance and visual clarity
* Generations. The generational structure to the neural networks isn't close to being accurate to the inspiration for the simulation, real life evolution. Conceptually, the use of neural networks is an abstraction that is being visually applied to agents.
* User Interface. The user interface needs to have simplistic visuals and purposes through buttons and potentially sliders.

## Thinking Ahead

Thinking ahead and having good planning for this project would be implementing core features of the simulation before adding supplementary features, so that the program works as soon as possible to add more leeway to any setbacks.\
\
Furthermore, keeping consistency through planning each step of the way to make sure the user has no unnecessary confusion when interacting with the full project.\
\
Considering the project more directly, for multiple agents with potentially complex neural networks behind them, pre loading and creating a simplified move set for each agent before the simulation runs will save a lot of processing power.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Decomposing a problem is the process of breaking a large problem into many smaller and more manageable problems. This is very important to consider when developing, as, for example, the UI will have to contain a very wide range of options that each do a wide variety of things. By decomposing the problem down into each button and its own use, the overall task becomes easier to manage and complete.\
\
Considering decomposition during the design and time management of the project will be crucial and will save me time and effort overall and make the projects code and log more readable and easier to follow.

## Thinking Logically

Logic within development is making decisions on inputs and calculating an outcome. Logical thinking is especially important when dealing with neural networks, as the computer is constantly feeding inputs into the neural network to calculate an output which in turn would effect the next set of inputs.\
\
Logical thinking also is considering how player interaction would be logically handled, and in my projects case, it would be simply responding to UI inputs.

## Thinking Concurrently

Concurrent thinking is the process of running differing parts of a problem simultaneously. In the context of a game or digital simulation, running multiple processes back to back to display simultaneously on the next frame gives an illusion of concurrent processing. Almost all modern libraries can handle concurrent operations for each frame during runtime. An example of what could be needed to update on each frame through concurrent thinking:

* Agent Movement
* Agent AI / neural network calculations
* Time display

Almost all modern libraries can handle concurrent operations for each frame during runtime.
